DFL Party Officers Our Revolution MN Candidate Questionnaire
The purpose of this questionnaire is to screen candidates who are interested in receiving an endorsement from Our Revolution MN. All responses will be public.

Name *
Abena Abraham

For which office are you campaigning? *
DFL State Treasurer
DFL Party Officers
The purpose of this section is to get specific responses for the DFL Party Officer races.

Do you support the current Super Delegate system? Why or Why Not? *
I think that the super delegate system is flawed; it allows the people at the top to continue making all the decisions. I would publically support any measure to get rid of the super delegate system, or bind super delegates to vote with their districts/states.

Do you believe in presidential primary? *
I think presidential primaries are the only way to be inclusive; making the presidential primary process be done through a caucus means a lot of voices are dropped because the day the caucus are held are not always times that work for everyone. Having a primary allows for all voices to be heard, and it doesn't force independents to declare a party if it's an open primary. I would only support a primary if it important.

How will you bring rural, independent Democrats back into the party? *
Organize them. Listen to their stories, and make their issues the center point of our messaging. Invest in the development of our volunteers, so that they can take the next level in their involvement in the party whether that be through being an delegate or running for office. We must center their needs, and work with them to create the changes that they want in their districts.

How will you recruit new candidates to run for public office? *
Conversation, and showing them the path to getting there. Teaching folks about the endorsing process, and giving them the necessary tools to go through the process, and most importantly investing in their leadership; coaching and asking them.

What is the role of DFL Party officers in endorsing and supporting candidates? *
To facilitate the conventions, and allow folks in their home districts to make the decision on whom should represent them, and not have DFL staff or leaders greatly influence the process

How do you plan to win elections (ie. campaign political philosophy)? *
I plan to create strong narratives that will resonate with the communities that we are organzing and give them the tools necessary to feel apart of the process during the elections, and after, and strengthen our base each year so that we have more of a strong voter base over time.

What is your vision for the future of the DFL Party regarding the independent grassroots organizations (ie Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, TakeAction Minnesota)? *
As someone who worked for an independent group (TAMN) I think it's engaging in the issue base work that these groups do during and after elections cycle, and making sure that their bases are in line with ours, and making sure that we a present at the table of what they are doing. I would like to see the leaders of these groups leading the DFL, and driving the work that we do as a party.

What is your plan to raise money to support the DFL Party reforms and future campaigns? *
Money is important, but I think the most important thing is to raise the base, and the voter base. With that we can build a grassroots effort by having our people donate, and direct the work, and how we're spending the funds.

Candidate Rationale
By asking the questions in this section we seek to find out why you are running for office, your issue priorities and background.

Why are you running for office? *
I'm running because I've been working on the campaign side of the DFL, and want to take the next step in my involvement, by being involved with the party. I believe that the relationships that I've built and am continuing to built will be helpful in building a stronger base to last use through what's to come.

What are your top three priorities once elected? *
1) provide a support system for our treasurers supporting local units. Create material that they can use to make their work easier. 2) strengthen the base, and build something sustainable that lasts past election cycles. 3) center the stories of the most invisible people in the party, and meet them where they are at.

Why are you the best person to address these issues? *
I have experience doing this. I know and can distinguish the differences between organizing and mobilizing, and I have the skills of bringing people together.?

How will you use your candidacy/elected official position to engage more citizens in the political process? *
I will continue the work that I do now of supporting candidates, and their teams. I will invite the people you don't usually see at the table to the table. And work like groups like yours to engage your members, and supporters to step up to the plate and run.

Describe your experiences and skill sets that will help you be effective in office. *
Organizing people and money, relationship building, and listening.
Our Revolution Values
By asking these questions we wish to see how your values align with the values of Our Revolution MN. Please describe how each of the values listed below will guide your conduct and decision-making as a representative of the people.

Citizens (people) before Corporations *
We lose elections when we put the priorities of corporations over people. We must tell the stories of our people, and how their lives are effected. For instance, we know that big corporations don't want to pay their fair shares of taxes - we have to ensure that we a fighting to make sure that they are paying their fair share, because when they don't pay the middle class has to fill those gaps causing them to bring home smaller checks that cannot sustain their families.

Voters over Donors *
Big donors don't win elections. People do. Voters should always be our first priorities. We should never have to abstain from a vote, or not support initiatives because our donors don't want us. As a public servant, you work for the people and that is the bottom line.

People, Planet and Peace before Profits *
We only get one earth. We don't need bad trade deals, or oil pipelines going through our communities because it'll continue to deepen the pockets of big corporations. We need to live, and the generations that come after us deserve a place to live, and air to breath. We must fight against every bad deal, and make sure that we taking all necessary steps to making living green affordable. Like moving towards 100% clean energy gird, reducing the carbon footprint, and giving incentives for folks to have solar panels on their homes.

Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons *
To start, no human being is illegal. Trans folks deserve access to healthcare secure housing, and to not be attacked when going about their everyday lives. LGBT folks should not be discriminated against, and should be allowed to live with their partners and loved ones, and have a family just like everyone else. Seniors deserve to retire with dignity and respect, and that means that we aren't raising the retirement age, and putting absurd caps on social securities. Black, brown, and native folks deserve feeling safe in their communities, and not being afraid of their law enforcement. Our muslims brothers and sister should be allowed to openly practice their religions without being painted as terrorist. Black lives matter, trans lives matter, muslim lives matter, LGBT lives matter, latinx lives matter and women rights are humans rights.
Closing

Why is an Our Revolution MN endorsement important to you? *
This endorsement is important to me, because Our Revolution MN is a grassroots, people powered organization, and I want to make sure that I have organizations like this to keep my accountable, and remind me of our values - should I do stuff that goes against our community and the values we hold. I want to sure that I have the voice of the progressive wing behind me so when I'm pushing for our issues within the DFL party I have people to back me up.

Which candidate did you support for president in the 2016 Minnesota caucuses 2016 and why? *
None, I wasn't eligible to vote. But pre- Iowa caucus I worked for Martin O'Malley.
Is there anything else you would like the Our Revolution MN Endorsements Committee to know about you?
