DFL Party Officers Our Revolution MN Candidate Questionnaire
The purpose of this questionnaire is to screen candidates who are interested in receiving an endorsement from Our Revolution MN. All responses will be public.

Name *
Amanda Madison

For which office are you campaigning? *
DFL State Party Secretary
DFL Party Officers
The purpose of this section is to get specific responses for the DFL Party Officer races.

Do you support the current Super Delegate system? Why or Why Not? *
No. The current Super Delegate system does not appropriately represent the voices of the people. Super Delegates essentially maintain the establishment by providing an individual person a vote that is equivalent to thousands of citizens. As we saw in the 2016 elections, Super Delegates often vote contrary to the will of the people they represent. The Super Delegate system is inherently undemocratic.

Do you believe in presidential primary? *
Yes. I believe in OPEN presidential primaries.

How will you bring rural, independent Democrats back into the party? *
The DFL has lost critical votes across the state because we as a party have not been listening to the people. Rural Minnesotans have long seen these problems coming, and have tried to help party leaders and DFLers from the cities understand. It is essential that we start listening now. As Secretary, I plan to work with the newly established Technology Task Force and with leadership of local units to improve DFL communications in such a way that we are more connected state-wide than we have been in years.

How will you recruit new candidates to run for public office? *
This is not the primary job of State Party Secretary, but I will support the efforts of the local units themselves. I plan to ensure they have what they need to communicate with one another and share ideas across the entirety of the state. The more connected we are, the better capacity we have to learn from one another when it comes to recruiting and running DFL candidates.

What is the role of DFL Party officers in endorsing and supporting candidates? *
The State Executive Committee has a responsibility to support local units and remain neutral at all times until formal endorsement proceedings have been completed. Once a candidate is endorsed, it is essential that we rally behind that candidate and support them in every possible way we can to ensure DFL candidates are ELECTED. I've heard this story far too often--candidates are endorsed but then find themselves without solid support from the DFL in the lead up to election day. Once again, I feel like this problem could be improved by connecting the party better. Communication is one of the most important things an organization can foster within its ranks. Communication fosters the sharing of ideas, and in this case can help rally support for a DFL-endorsed candidate across the state.

How do you plan to win elections (ie. campaign political philosophy)? *
I'm a big believer that stories connect us as a people. I think we need to take our organizing back to the grassroots, where it has demonstrated the most effectiveness in years past. When we empower individuals to share their stories and spread the word about our values and the organizations and candidates that represent them, we will surely take back the state.

What is your vision for the future of the DFL Party regarding the independent grassroots organizations (ie Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, TakeAction Minnesota)? *
I think the DFL Party would be missing out on a big opportunity (and I would even question our continued legitimacy) if we did not only embrace but actively work with grassroots organizations such as Our Revolution, Black Lives Matter, and Take Action. These organizations form as a result of shared stories and deep commitments to actively improving the state of Minnesota and the nation. In December, I myself helped to found a grassroots organization called Women & Advocates Minnesota. So I understand, perhaps more than other candidates, just how important the work of these organizations really is in uniting people around common values and goals.

What is your plan to raise money to support the DFL Party reforms and future campaigns? *
As Secretary, it is not within the scope of my position to lead fundraising efforts. That being said, I believe philanthropy is key for the success of a massive statewide organization such as the DFL--especially if we hope to take back the state in a big way in the 2018 elections. I think fundraising is also dependent largely on communications. If we are able to effectively connect across the state, local unit leaders can share what fundraising efforts are working well for their area and help others that may be having more difficulty.
Candidate Rationale
By asking the questions in this section we seek to find out why you are running for office, your issue priorities and background.

Why are you running for office? *
I'm running for DFL Secretary because we cannot afford to continue to use decade-old communication methods in an ever evolving technological society. I want to upgrade and revitalize communications and help to connect DFLers across the state like never before.

What are your top three priorities once elected? *
I'm glad you asked. I have a 3-Point Plan that I will begin work on the moment I am elected as State Party Secretary: 1. Upgrade Communications. Transition the Yahoo Group (currently only utilized by 1/3rd of the members of the State Central Committee) to a more comprehensive community group tool that can integrate other platforms, allowing individuals and local units multiple communication options while also connecting them even more effectively to the whole of the DFL. 2. Educate. Launch an extensive education campaign for both new and experienced DFL leaders around current technology and communication methods, which will help them stay connected and be more effective in their positions. I envision both face-to-face education at caucuses, meetings, and conventions, as well as online learning modules on the DFL website. 3. Ensure Ongoing Quality. Put into place a permanent Quality Improvement (QI) team for communication within the party to constantly evaluate what is working, what isn't working, and develop & implement effective solutions as problems are discovered.

Why are you the best person to address these issues? *
The DFL Secretary is the party organizer in a literal sense, organizing and processing documents, as well as managing communications party-wide, but specifically within the State Central Committee. Most people who know me will tell you that I am a born organizer, and I intend to work tirelessly to make the DFL communicate better. I've done this professionally in my career as a pediatric nurse in a primary care clinic, and for two organizations: Our Revolution Minnesota and Women & Advocates Minnesota While the day to day operations of the State Party Secretary are essential to the functioning of the organization, I believe my particular drive and skill set equip me to take the role to a new level--improving DFL communications in such a way that will bind us strongly together and better equip us to achieve success in the months and years ahead.

How will you use your candidacy/elected official position to engage more citizens in the political process? *
As Secretary, I plan to ensure the DFL is as transparent and neutral as possible. I think the DFL's lack of transparency and neutrality is one of the primary reasons more democratic-voting Minnesotans are not involved in and supportive of the party. The same can be said of individuals who do not typically participate in any capacity in the political process. The DFL--like the GOP, and perhaps even more so--is viewed as simply an arm of the establishment and not as a truly representative body of the people. Improving communications is one way the DFL could counter these views, by proving that we are truly open, inclusive, transparent, and a collective voice of the people of Minnesota.

Describe your experiences and skill sets that will help you be effective in office. *
In my professional life, I served as a personnel security officer during my time in the military and was responsible for maintaining an entire brigade’s personnel security files, as well as overseeing completion of hundreds of security clearances prior to two deployments--a process that required meticulous organization and attention to detail. As a pediatrics nurse in a primary care clinic, I manage tasks and oversee our “in-basket”, pulling and opening 50 to 100+ electronic patient records on a daily basis, ensuring tasks are thoroughly completed in a timely manner. In my volunteer time, I’ve lead communications and internal operations for two organizations, including Our Revolution Minnesota. I am currently working as an organizer with Women & Advocates Minnesota--a new organization which I helped to found in early December. I manage the WANDA Slack channel (a communications application), the Google working documents of our five committees, draft and send out email blasts via MailChimp to our organization’s membership, manage and update a running membership list, and respond pleasantly and in a timely manner to direct messaging via email, Facebook, and through our website.
Our Revolution Values
By asking these questions we wish to see how your values align with the values of Our Revolution MN. Please describe how each of the values listed below will guide your conduct and decision-making as a representative of the people.

Citizens (people) before Corporations *
Always. Period. End of story. The people in this state and our nation have lost their power, and it is being even further drained and handed over to corporate billionaires by the current presidential administration. As Secretary, I will do everything in my power to shift the tides on this trend in Minnesota. By improving communication, we will amplify the voice of the people, connect them in new and innovative ways.

Voters over Donors *
I have always been a strong believer in the power of people over the power of money. The DFL is here to serve the people of Minnesota and not the corporations or wealthy democrats who may hope to sway our party's favor monetarily. As a member of the DFL State Executive Committee, I plan to hold others accountable for neutrality and integrity at all times. Money is an important part of the work that we do, but it absolutely cannot be prioritized over the voice of the people--who must always be our number one priority.

People, Planet and Peace before Profits *
As Secretary and a member of the State Executive Committee of the DFL, I will stand firm in my beliefs and vote accordingly. People, planet, and peace will always come first before profit. As the party becomes better connected with me as Secretary, DFLers will be empowered to stand more strongly together against elected officials, corporations, and legislation that puts people, planet, or peace at risk.

Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons *
Dignity, equity, and justice for all people should be the very foundation of the DFL, a future that we must strive for tirelessly. Now more than ever, we need to stand strongly in support of our most marginalized and raise up their voices. As Secretary, I will do everything in my power to ensure all people-- regardless of race, religion, gender, identity, sexual orientation, age, or socioeconomic status--have a fair and equal voice at the DFL table.
Closing

Why is an Our Revolution MN endorsement important to you? *
I have long considered myself a strong progressive. As a former leader of the organization in Communication/Technology, the Our Revolution MN endorsement would mean a great deal. I believe the progressive platform is the future of the democratic party nationally and the DFL here in Minnesota.

Which candidate did you support for president in the 2016 Minnesota caucuses 2016 and why? *
I caucused for Sen. Bernie Sanders and was selected as a delegate for the SD 60, CD5, and state conventions in 2016. I was a proud supporter of Sen. Sanders for president and believe wholeheartedly in his platform to this day. Sen. Sanders and I aligned most closely with regard to the following key issues: income inequality, money in politics, climate change, universal healthcare, and foreign policy. Since his loss to Hillary Clinton in the Democratic Primary, I have been heeding his call to continue the Revolution. My candidacy for DFL Secretary is part of my answer to that call.
Is there anything else you would like the Our Revolution MN Endorsements Committee to know about you?
It is an honor to be considered for the Our Revolution Minnesota endorsement. I ask for your vote for this endorsement and on March 4th at the meeting of the State Central Committee. Thank you!
