DFL Party Officers Our Revolution MN Candidate Questionnaire
The purpose of this questionnaire is to screen candidates who are interested in receiving an endorsement from Our Revolution MN. All responses will be public.
Name *
Donna Cassutt
For which office are you campaigning? *
State DFL Chair
DFL Party Officers
The purpose of this section is to get specific responses for the DFL Party Officer races.
Do you support the current Super Delegate system? Why or Why Not? *
No. The current Super Delegate system allows for the amplification of already powerful voices, creating an imbalance of power over the voices of the grassroots. Representatives of the people, selected by their communities to represent their voice at the Democratic National Convention, should select our presidential nominee to reflect the will of the people.
Do you believe in presidential primary? *
I prefer the Caucus system, though given that we are moving to a presidential primary, I remain committed to fully supporting the Caucuses that we will have, to invite neighbor-to-neighbor discussions and decision-making.
How will you bring rural, independent Democrats back into the party? *
We'll bring rural, independent Democrats back into the party through organizing, strategic partnerships and by lifting up the voices of local folks that are impacted by policies. Clearly, rural voters feel left behind by the DFL Party though I don't believe we lost to the Republicans. I believe we have not done our job to communicate to rural voters that we hear them, understand their struggles, and will stand with and fight for them. We need to begin having issue-based authentic conversations throughout rural Minnesota. Whether through a canvass or through local events, potentially with allied partners, we need to first listen to the concerns of folks and through these authentic conversations we can learn what resonates with people locally. Through this relationship building and potential organizing around local issues, and through telling stories of those impacted by negative policies, we can shape what will then become local campaign issues and can help shape messaging, that will speak to the community, as it's come from the community. It's a grassroots approach that relies on organizing instead of over-relying on polling and consultants.
How will you recruit new candidates to run for public office? *
A new approach to recruiting new candidates to run for public office is needed. Often there is a last-minute scramble to simply put someone on the ballot as a DFLer, simply to fill a spot. My plan is to build out a program for intentional recruitment, beginning now. I will invite the Legislative Caucuses to rethink how we recruit candidates together to build a bench to elect DFLers. Beginning now, we should assess the opportunities in each legislative district and in local non-partisan races. I'd like the State Party to work with the Caucuses and local Party leaders to identify potential candidates, ideally, arising out of local organizing/ advocacy. Not only do we need to reimagine how we recruit candidates, we need to commit to training and supporting local candidates -- particularly in rural MN, where we've suffered great losses. If we're asking a candidate to run and they courageously step forward, I believe we must clearly communicate what it will take and we must be willing to lend guidance and support, regardless if it is a targeted race, in order to build in areas where multiple runs may be required. I don't think candidate recruitment can be one size fits all. We need to tailor approaches that reflect the input of local folks.
What is the role of DFL Party officers in endorsing and supporting candidates? *
While serving as the State DFL Associate Chair in 2008, once caucuses took place and the people voted nearly 67% in favor of then-Senator Obama, I endorsed him, honoring the will of the people. I have made a public pledge regarding this issue: When the Party appears to favor one candidate over another it disrespects our democratic traditions and damages our ability to come together in unity. The Chair must remain neutral in everything the Party oversees so all stakeholders feel that the process has integrity and is fair. As your State Party Chair, I pledge to remain neutral in all state and local endorsement contests until after the appropriate convention. I further pledge to remain neutral in the presidential contest until after Minnesota's presidential primary. This neutrality will also apply to the State DFL office and staff.
How do you plan to win elections (ie. campaign political philosophy)? *
To lay the groundwork in order to win elections, following the time I've spent listening to DFL activists throughout the state during this campaign for Chair, we'll prioritize organizing throughout the state to listen to and gain an understanding of the concerns of voters. We will create a culture within the Party that is welcoming to new people and ideas, is inclusive, and that trusts that people know their communities best in order to build ownership of the Party. I will meet with and check in with Congressional District chairs regularly, to hear how the State Party can best support the work of local units in order to provide that support to grow and strengthen local units. I will meet with progressive allies and elected officials to explore partnering surrounding issue-based organizing and advocacy to build grassroots power together and relationships that may potentially evolve into doing electoral work together. I will meet with coordinated campaign partners to understand their individual goals and then convene the table to find common ground to begin laying the groundwork for a strong coordinated campaign, early. We'll build a strong team of staff members that will develop and execute communications and field plans with partners. And to fund this, I will re-establish and build new donor relationships with both institutional and movement donors, while expanding our grassroots donor base. All of this will build grassroots power to fuel our electoral infrastructure. I am honored to have served as State DFL Associate Chair for six years, from 2005 to 2011. In my first election cycle leading the Party in 2006, we won back the State Legislature and got Amy Klobuchar, Lori Swanson, Rebecca Otto, Mark Ritchie, Keith Ellison, and Tim Walz elected. In 2008, we got Al Franken elected. In 2010, Mark Dayton — the first DFL Governor elected in 24 years! When I started as Associate Chair in 2005, we held only two of the seven statewide offices. When I left in 2011, we held seven out of seven — and we have ever since. We did this by investing in organizing, getting out of Saint Paul, building a connected state, earning the trust of partners, building great teams and strong coordinated campaigns, and raised the money necessary. We can do this again.
What is your vision for the future of the DFL Party regarding the independent grassroots organizations (ie Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, TakeAction Minnesota)? *
The DFL Party must respect the people power that independent grassroots organizations build, and look to learn from them and potentially partner with them. It's going to take all of us to resist, fight and build with our current president and a Republican legislature. We can no longer afford to have the Party distance itself or compete with progressive organizations that are building power through organizing efforts that serve their memberships. And we need to be open to partnering with grassroots organizations. I have followed the lead of BLM from its inception, having marched, prayed, sang and participated in civil disobedience with them. Our Revolution has the potential to engage and mobilize folks around issues that are important to folks throughout Minnesota. And as a TakeAction Minnesota member, and a Minnesotans for a Fair Economy partner I have worked extensively with, I will look for ways to partner with TAMN. As an example, right now if I were Chair of the DFL Party, we'd be partnering with the Labor and community organizations packing the hearings opposing the Local Interference bills of the Republicans, which would prohibit local governments from being responsive to their residents with measures like Earned Sick and Safe time, which many organizations came together around to pass in Minneapolis and Saint Paul.
What is your plan to raise money to support the DFL Party reforms and future campaigns? *
Maintaining and establishing relationships with longtime Party donors, and clearly communicating how year-round issue-based organizing and building grassroots power will grow and strengthen the Party to prepare for elections. Through connecting with large numbers of grassroots activists and by showing up differently in communities throughout Minnesota, we'll increase our low-dollar donor base, which will build a connection with these voters.
Candidate Rationale
By asking the questions in this section we seek to find out why you are running for office, your issue priorities and background.
Why are you running for office? *
I'm running to serve as the State Chair of the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party. In the 2016, the Republicans took over the Legislature. They won our one open congressional seat with a candidate you can hardly tell apart from Donald Trump. And Minnesota did the unthinkable -- we nearly went Trump. The Republicans came closer to winning our electoral votes than they have in 44 years. And we're the only state in the nation that went for Hillary that flipped a legislative chamber from Democratic to Republican. I don't believe the Republicans won. We didn't do our job. The Party failed to communicate to working people throughout our state, that we see and hear their struggles and will stand with and fight with them. Under the current leadership, the Party has moved away from investing in organizing, has been less clear in communicating that we stand with working people, has become more metro-centric, is losing its connection to our rural communities, and has moved away from truly coordinated electoral campaigns. And we have failed to engage our base communities around issues that affect their lives on an ongoing basis. Instead, the Party has over-relied on polling, consultants, mail and TV ads, rather than doing what we know works -- having effective conversations with voters. We lost legislative seats in 2014. We lost more legislative seats in 2016. We cannot afford this trend in 2018 and 2020 if we are to retain the governorship and have any say in redistricting. Moving a progressive agenda forward will be difficult. And as we face a Trump presidency and a Republican Legislature, we need new thinking. We need a Chair that values organizing and voter education, has demonstrated the ability to win elections and issue-based campaigns in innovative ways with strategic partners. And that has extensive experience in movement politics. Having successfully served as the DFL Party's Associate Chair from 2005-11 and as the Executive Director of Minnesotans for a Fair Economy from 2011-16, I am best prepared to help lift the DFL Party to new heights. I will share more about these two professional experiences below.
What are your top three priorities once elected? *
1. Invest in deep organizing. We need to spend time in communities throughout Minnesota, having issue-based conversations that are important to people, allowing us to understand one another and build relationships. Not only will this be helpful in shaping local messaging; it will help us identify local candidates and new people to invite into the Party. So many, particularly young people and women, were energized by last year's presidential election. They want to do meaningful work. I want them to land in the Minnesota DFL -- perhaps in their local organizing unit, perhaps in a constituency caucus, or perhaps through a progressive ally organization. And we can partner with organizations like Our Rev and TakeAction Minnesota for events like the recent informational and action meeting surrounding saving Obamacare, Medicare and Planned Parenthood funding. All of which, will allow us to engage people in our political and public lives. 2. Convene the legislative caucuses, elected officials and party activists to rethink how we recruit local candidates to build a bench and elect DFLers, as explained earlier. 3. Deepen and broaden our relationships with organized Labor and other progressive allies. We must partner in new ways to not only tell, but show, workers, immigrants, communities of color, LGBTQ folks, climate justice advocates, people of the Muslim faith and all faiths, that we stand with them and will fight with them. This could take the form of civic engagement, legislative advocacy, or direct action. The point is that we will break down the walls between the Party and outside groups that are doing powerful work year-round, helping change the narrative in Minnesota around economic, racial, social and environmental justice.
Why are you the best person to address these issues? *
My experience in electoral and movement politics; my ability to be just as comfortable with high-dollar donors and I am with protesting in the strets; my ability to earn the trust of diverse partners to build and execute joint programs successfully; my ability to respect local activists; my ability to put together great teams and manage multiple complex programs; and my ability to serve as an executive.
How will you use your candidacy/elected official position to engage more citizens in the political process? *
I will implement grassroots issue-based organizing and advocacy throughout Minnesota, within the Party and also in partnership with base-building organizations. We will invite people into the Party to do meaningful work through constituency caucuses, advocacy work, precinct caucuses and electoral campaigns.
Describe your experiences and skill sets that will help you be effective in office. *
I have been a community organizer for the last 30 years. My work in electoral and movement politics make me best suited to lead the DFL Party in the age of Trump and with a Republican Legislature, where new thinking will be required. I previously entered into Party leadership, serving as the State DFL Associate Chair in 2005, shortly after we lost the election to George W. Bush, and when we had a divided Legislature and a Republican governor. Folks felt deflated. We built a great teams. We invested in organizing and ran effective communications and field plans. In 2006, we took back the Legislature, elected Amy Klobuchar, Mark Ritchie, Lori Swanson, Rebecca Otto, Tim Walz (unseating a six-term Republican) and Keith Ellison (in a brutal primary campaign). In 2008 we elected Al Franken, unseating a Republican incumbent, and helped elect the President. In 2010 we helped elect the first DFL governor in 24 years! When I began in this role, the DFL Party held only two of the statewide offices. When I left in 2011 we held all seven, and have ever since. Since then I have served as the Executive Director of Minnesotans for a Fair Economy. MFE is an alignment of labor, faith and community groups addressing economic, racial, social and environmental justice issues. We have been successful in numerous coordinated campaigns addressing corporate accountability, income inequality and racial equity in workplaces, municipalities, at the Legislature and at the ballot box. Victories include helping to raise the minimum wage at the state level, going up against the Big Banks to pass the Homeowner's Bill of Rights to protect families against foreclosure, and passing earned sick and safe time in Minneapolis and St. Paul. One of the campaigns I'm most proud of is the Our Vote Our Future campaign. In 2012, the Republicans put on the ballot a constitutional amendment to require photo ID. A Star Tribune poll showed 80% support for photo ID. The current leadership, whose decision-making over-relies on polling, felt this fight was unwinnable. With our democracy at stake, our table decided that we couldn't not fight it. My team conducted the research and we put together a communications and field plan, and built out a campaign with partner organizations that defeated the amendment with 54% of the vote. Had we relied on the polling, many voices would have been left out of our elections. Instead, with a deep belief that tough campaigns can only be won with smart strategies and through organizing, we were successful by people talking to people throughout the state of Minnesota. My skills include the ability to build talented and creative teams to do hard things - win difficult electoral and advocacy campaigns by building people power through grassroots organizing. I'm an excellent manager, and oversee research, communications and field plan development and execution. I am skilled in building powerful strategic partnerships, in serving as a spokesperson, and in fundraising.
Our Revolution Values
By asking these questions we wish to see how your values align with the values of Our Revolution MN. Please describe how each of the values listed below will guide your conduct and decision-making as a representative of the people.
Citizens (people) before Corporations *
I am committed to building grassroots power and employ smart strategies and tactics in advocacy and elections to provide a counter balance to the influence of the corporate power that has captured our economy and democracy.
Voters over Donors *
We will widen and deepen our donor base with a renewed focus on grassroots fundraising. This investment by a large number of donors facilitates a feeling of identification with the Party and in turn a greater voice within the Party.
People, Planet and Peace before Profits *
We will stand up to the Republican/corporate anti-worker agenda, attempts to dismantle environmental protections, and saber rattling putting us at risk at home and around the world.
Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons *
My deep commitment to these core principles will provide a lens to look through in all party processes, advocacy and elections to enact a progressive agenda.
Closing
Why is an Our Revolution MN endorsement important to you? *
Establishment politics has allowed for the concentration of wealth and power, and by extension, our democracy, into the hands of a very few. Change will only come from the grassroots. That is, organized people working in partnership, educating voters, electing progressive candidates in order to move forward a pro-worker agenda, racial equity, environmental justice, corporate accountability and more. Bernie Sanders's historic presidential campaign engaged, energized and mobilized grassroots support like nothing we've seen before. It's inspiring that Bernie's supporters have remained engaged through Our Revolution, which is a testament to the grassroots power that was built through the Sanders campaign. That is absolutely essential to creating change by moving forward a progressive agenda. I will stand and organize with members of Our Rev MN, both inside and outside of the Party, to continue to build power for the movement.
Which candidate did you support for president in the 2016 Minnesota caucuses 2016 and why? *
Bernie Sanders. Because Bernie courageously and powerfully spoke unwaveringly to the issues that are important to me and I would argue, a majority of Americans.
Is there anything else you would like the Our Revolution MN Endorsements Committee to know about you?
I was honored to have been recommended by Representative Keith Ellison to serve as a Bernie delegate to the Platform Committee for the Democratic National Convention. I'm proud that we were able to include many of Bernie's ideas, making it the most progressive DNC Platform ever.
