DFL Party Officers Our Revolution MN Candidate Questionnaire
The purpose of this questionnaire is to screen candidates who are interested in receiving an endorsement from Our Revolution MN. All responses will be public.

Name *
Ethan Cords

For which office are you campaigning? *
DFL Vice Chair
DFL Party Officers
The purpose of this section is to get specific responses for the DFL Party Officer races.

Do you support the current Super Delegate system? Why or Why Not? *
No. Under our current system, Super Delegates do not represent the wish of the voters. If they can be reformed to better reflect the votes of the people, then the should be reformed. If no reform can be made, then we need to eliminate the Super Delegates completely.

Do you believe in presidential primary? *
The primary is a good way to select a candidate, however we need to have a geographically diverse group of states vote early in the race. Currently, the first states to vote are predominantly white, rural states and the heavily conservative southern states. Having a diverse group of states vote earlier will help select a candidate that can win in the general election.

How will you bring rural, independent Democrats back into the party? *
I will create a Rural Caucus and a Labor Caucus to help bring our forgotten base back to the party. I will also work to weed out corruption, whether it be an elected official or a party leader, we can not have corruption ruining our party. I would also create a mobile phone app to help connect voters, volunteers and candidates. This will help increase grassroots participation in our campaigns and can be used to help increase grassroots funding for our candidates, helping ween our party off the corporate dollar and giving the voters confidence that the Democratic Party is the people's party.

How will you recruit new candidates to run for public office? *
I will meet with progressives across the state and encourage them to run for office. I will also contact organizations such as Democratic Municipal Officials to get leads on Democrats already elected to city offices who would be willing to run for state level offices.

What is the role of DFL Party officers in endorsing and supporting candidates? *
The role of officers should be minimal. I believe Party officers should let the voters decide and only step into the process at the very end to either help solve a tie in the popular vote or to congratulate the winner of the popular vote.

How do you plan to win elections (ie. campaign political philosophy)? *
We need candidates who can win in their districts and who are knowledgeable on a multitude of issues. We need to engage the voters of each district separately, letting the local party units and candidates form a message on their own and provide them with funding to meet their goals. Currently, the state party wastes tens of thousands of dollars on mailers in every district. These dollars would be better utilized going directly to campaigns and local party units who know what is the best approach to win their district. We also need to make sure there are plenty of debates, town halls and forums held to connect the candidates with the voters and to get the candidate's message and the party's message out to the voters directly.

What is your vision for the future of the DFL Party regarding the independent grassroots organizations (ie Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, TakeAction Minnesota)? *
I believe the DFL should get involved with social movements and grassroots movements that fit the party platform and that reflect our values. The party needs to recognize these groups and meet with their leaders and have an open dialogue with the members of these movements.

What is your plan to raise money to support the DFL Party reforms and future campaigns? *
I want to hold fundraising events with every single organizing unit and help make sure the local party units have enough funding to run their campaigns effectively. I also want to create a mobile app to allow for quick and easy campaign donations directly to candidates or the party itself. Once we have a sufficient stream of grassroots funding, we can stop collecting money from the super PACs and corporations who are trying to buy our candidates.
Candidate Rationale
By asking the questions in this section we seek to find out why you are running for office, your issue priorities and background.

Why are you running for office? *
I love Minnesota and I believe getting involved in politics can make an impact on everyone's life and help make Minnesota a better place for all who wish to call it home. If elected as Vice Chair of the DFL, I hope to restore faith in party leadership and provide fresh ideas to the party.

What are your top three priorities once elected? *
First, I will rebrand the party so people know we are the party of the people. Second, I hope to grow the party and make sure the majority of millennials become DFLers, keeping our progressive movement alive for decades. Third, I want to help end corruption in the party and in politics in general. If we can weed out corruption and restore the voter's faith in our political system, we can greatly increase voter turnout, making sure every voice is heard.

Why are you the best person to address these issues? *
I am already very active in the political system. I am the a Steele County DFL Director and an Owatonna Human Rights Commissioner. I help people from all walks of life and multiple nationalities on a daily basis. I have worked with elected officials from across the state to get funding for our highways, for renewable energy and for passenger rail projects.

How will you use your candidacy/elected official position to engage more citizens in the political process? *
I will host town halls, forums and listening sessions across the state in cities big and small to let the people know that I care and that the DFL cares about what they have to say.

Describe your experiences and skill sets that will help you be effective in office. *
I am a Steele County DFL director, Owatonna Human Rights Commissioner, a member of the Izaak Walton League, a member of Steele County Indivisable, a member of the Highway 14 Partnership and I actively participate in Owatonna Forward, Owatonna city meetings (such as airport meetings, senior center meetings, etc.) and I have been working with leaders across Minnesota to create a statewide passenger rail coalition. I also was running for city council for a few months, during that time I raised a significant amount of money from grassroots donors and was proud to have put my progressive ideas front and center in a conservative town. I inspired many people to get involved in the political process during my campaign and hope to inspire more people to get involved in the future.
Our Revolution Values
By asking these questions we wish to see how your values align with the values of Our Revolution MN. Please describe how each of the values listed below will guide your conduct and decision-making as a representative of the people.

Citizens (people) before Corporations *
Though business interests are important to consider, we can never allow the interests of the rich corporations come before the interests of the workers and the people we represent.

Voters over Donors *
The voters are our boss. We need to listen to the voters and ignore threats from the rich who think they can buy our elected officials. We can start listening to our donors once we have grassroots campaigns funded entirely by the people, for the people.

People, Planet and Peace before Profits *
The government was created to protect the people, not the profits of large corporations. We need to protect our environment and in doing so, we will be protecting our people. Peace needs to be maintained and that is why we need to reaffirm our support for organizations such as the United Nations and the Red Cross to help build bonds with countries across the globe and make sure America is still the leader of a truly free world and not an overly aggressive policeman.

Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons *
We should never allow a person to suffer due to their gender, race, sexuality, religion, age or nationality. Every person is born entitled to equality and should be treated with respect. I believe our current justice system needs to be reformed to make sure we do not have discrimination occurring against any group. Until we have true equality for all, we will always have a moral obligation to fight for the equality of our fellow men and women who need their voices heard.
Closing

Why is an Our Revolution MN endorsement important to you? *
Though I was already active in politics before I knew about Bernie Sanders, I was inspired by him and his message and hope to help spread this inspiring message to as many as possible. I hope to gain the endorsement of Our Revolution MN to let people know what I stand for and to let them know that the progressive movement is a movement of young and rising political leaders such as myself who hope to make a positive impact in Minnesota and across the country.

Which candidate did you support for president in the 2016 Minnesota caucuses 2016 and why? *
Bernie Sanders. I aligned with him and his policy more so than any other candidate and believed he was the best choice for America.
Is there anything else you would like the Our Revolution MN Endorsements Committee to know about you?
I am very passionate about politics and whether or not I receive this endorsement and whether or not I win this election, I will continue to be active in politics locally, at the state level and even the national level.

