DFL Party Officers Our Revolution MN Candidate Questionnaire

The purpose of this questionnaire is to screen candidates who are interested in receiving an endorsement from Our Revolution MN. All responses will be public.
Name *
Jacob Grippen

For which office are you campaigning? *
Secretary
DFL Party Officers
The purpose of this section is to get specific responses for the DFL Party Officer races.

Do you support the current Super Delegate system? Why or Why Not? *
In it's current form

Do you believe in presidential primary? *
I believe that having a primary/caucus hybrid system (for Presidential elections) like the one create last year by the State Legislature will allow more folks to participate in voting, and still allow precincts to organize through the caucus/convention process

How will you bring rural, independent Democrats back into the party? *
I am a rural DFLer, and I will continue to listen to what my neighbors have to say, and to bring those concerns with me to my seat (if reelected) on the Executive Committee. I will continue to support the work that the DFL does and will do to support local party units to aid in this work.

How will you recruit new candidates to run for public office? *
Looking at people who are active or have ideas and telling them that they should run, and then helping them do so.

What is the role of DFL Party officers in endorsing and supporting candidates? *
I'm sure this question is meant to be framed in the sense that how should Party Officers act before the official party endorsement/nomination is determined. There are rules for Party Officers to not publicly endorse at the level they represent or below. I believe that is a good system. As for endorsing above the State Level, I can see arguments for and against that. As for supporting a candidate, it's a slippery slope to not be able to allow a citizen advocate for their beliefs even if it's in private. I understand why the question was asked, and I can appreciate

How do you plan to win elections (ie. campaign political philosophy)? *
My campaign philosophy is like my organizing, grassroots, Margaret Meade style, but of course it makes the load easier if there are more and more people pulling in the same direction.

What is your vision for the future of the DFL Party regarding the independent grassroots organizations (ie Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, TakeAction Minnesota)? *
I believe if it's within the legal parameters, we should be doing all we can to bring people together to resist regressing at all levels, and also improving the lives of the people around us, and for ourselves.

What is your plan to raise money to support the DFL Party reforms and future campaigns? *
To continue to grow our small donor groups, and to work at the grassroots level on up to help fund the good work that the party can and will do to defend and improve people's lives.
Candidate Rationale
By asking the questions in this section we seek to find out why you are running for office, your issue priorities and background.

Why are you running for office? *
To continue the work that I have been doing, to improve our work in Greater Minnesota, and to continue to be a voice of reason and reflection within our party.

What are your top three priorities once elected? *
Supporting Party Units to support themselves, Develop and recreate our intraparty communications, Work to regain greater Minnesota voters, both coming back to the party, and inspiring DFLers to make sure they get out and vote

Why are you the best person to address these issues? *
Because I grew up, live, and have organized in Greater Minnesota for almost the entirety of my political activism. I have experienced good communications tools, and not so good. And because I have a contemplative side to my activism that generally only speaks up when there is something important to say.

How will you use your candidacy/elected official position to engage more citizens in the political process? *
I will continue to advocate neighbors and friends to engage in the caucus/convention process, the volunteer work that comes along with political parties and campaigns, and to encourage friends, family and colleagues to run for office themselves.

Describe your experiences and skill sets that will help you be effective in office. *
As far as the technical aspects of being Secretary, I've been doing that for the past 5.5 years with little complaint. As for the other aspects of being an officer of the state party, like I mentioned before, I live and grew up in Greater Minnesota, and know what it's like to organize here, as a professional staffer, and as a former Chair of a local unit, and still active in Winona County DFL business. I am a good listener, and as I mentioned before, contemplative, understand, and curious. I also always strive to make sure that people are being heard, and also being respectful to one another.
Our Revolution Values
By asking these questions we wish to see how your values align with the values of Our Revolution MN. Please describe how each of the values listed below will guide your conduct and decision-making as a representative of the people.

Citizens (people) before Corporations *
Of course, and we need to rid this country of the horrible Citizens United Supreme Court decision.

Voters over Donors *
Yes, but we need both, right? But it all comes back down to need those voters to support us on the ballot.

People, Planet and Peace before Profits *
Yes

Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons *
Yes, it's just that simple. (But a long journey to get there)
Closing

Why is an Our Revolution MN endorsement important to you? *
Because I want to have the support of your group and connect with your energy as we move into the future.

Which candidate did you support for president in the 2016 Minnesota caucuses 2016 and why? *
I was actually uncommitted, and almost didn't vote because I was so busy making sure that the precinct I was leading was getting all of their work done.
Is there anything else you would like the Our Revolution MN Endorsements Committee to know about you?
I graduated from high school in 2002 and headed to NYU in New York City to earn my Bachelor of Science degree in Social Studies Education, which I received in May 2006. I followed my heart back to Minnesota and ended up in La Crescent (in Houston County, where I grew up). I became heavily active in my local DFL Unit, Houston County, in 2007-2008. Starting as what was then called the Affirmative Action Officer. I subsequently was elected as a Director to the CD1 Executive Committee. Starting in July 2008 I worked for the DFL Coordinated Campaign as the paid organizer for Fillmore, Houston and Winona Counties, and I remained employed through the hand recounting of Senator Franken's race. In late summer 2009 I was elected Vice Chair of Houston County DFL. During the 2010 convention season I was elected Chair. I again joined the DFL Coordinated Campaign in 2010 as a staffer to organize in the 9.5 counties of southwest Minnesota and worked through the hand recounting in Governor Dayton's race. In February 2011 I ran for State Party Secretary and lost. In August of that year the previous Secretary resigned, I decided to run again, and I was elected State Party Secretary that September. April 2012 found me joining the staff of Minnesotans United for All Families as an organizer in Fillmore, Houston, and Winona Counties. It was grueling campaign and I was elated on election night when we made history in defeating an anti-LGBT constitutional amendment for the first time. I look forward to continue having the opportunity to share my experience with the DFL in organizing in Greater Minnesota. I headed to Saint Paul in early 2013 to work as a Page for the Minnesota House of Representatives, and was witness to that historic Legislative session as the right to marry was extended to all Minnesotans, along with so many other monumental steps that benefitted our state. I moved to Winona in the fall to organize Outreach for MNSure in all of southeast Minnesota, and did that until they decided to change up the program. And in Winona I have remained. I have spent most of my life here in Greater Minnesota, and cherish that opportunity to continue to reach out to DFLers outside of the Twin Cities. I know and recognize the DFL fell short in Greater MN in the 2016 election cycle and being a proud resident of Greater MN, it is hard for me to accept that the DFL had a hard time reaching out to and connecting with my own friends and family. This must change and I will work hard to ensure it does. It is my experience and perspective as a resident of Greater Minnesota that makes me different and if I am re-elected as State Secretary, I will continue to work hard to ensure the DFL is active in every community.
