The purpose of this questionnaire is to screen candidates who are interested in receiving an endorsement from Our Revolution MN. All responses will be public.

Name *
Ken Martin

For which office are you campaigning? *
Chair
DFL Party Officers
The purpose of this section is to get specific responses for the DFL Party Officer races.

Do you support the current Super Delegate system? Why or Why Not? *
I support the work of the Unity Commission in reforming the Super Delegate system. Many of you have heard me say this -- I never wanted to be a Super Delegate. While Super Delegates didn’t ultimately decide the outcome, the perception that the system was rigged was there. We as party leaders need ensure that the party is open and transparent. All candidates and supporters should have a fair chance to compete and have their voices heard in the process.

Do you believe in presidential primary? *
There’s a reason why Minnesota has the highest general election turnout in the nation. It’s because we work very hard at making making the polls accessible to everyone. We meet people where they are at. Likewise, there’s a reason why the DFL is envied amongst state democratic parties. We meet people where they are, invest in their ideas and knowledge and put the party in their hands. I came up in the caucus system. It’s a pillar of our party, one that I’m proud of. You can look across the country and you won’t find a more grassroots system for a political party. But, we were all there on March1st. We know that the presidential preference ballot brought hundreds of thousand people to caucuses between 6:30 and 8:00pm. Caucuses aren’t set up for that kind of balloting traffic. Evening shift workers, travelers, parents of young kids, people with mobility issues -- no one should ever experience a barrier in participating. Caucuses will still happen for party business, endorsements, all of the like. The party will remain as open as ever. I support the move to a presidential preference ballot being handled by the Secretary of State so that more people can participate. We need to meet people where they're at, just like we have always strived to do.

How will you bring rural, independent Democrats back into the party? *
There are a few things we need to do to bring back rural, independent democrats. 1.        Bernie had it right. That’s not me pandering, it’s just the truth. Bernie’s economic populist message was spot on. We need to craft a narrative that speaks to the knot in people’s stomachs. Rural Minnesotans are hard-working, down to earth people, who have each other’s backs day in and day out. We need to take a page from their book and start fighting for them again. Republicans will fight with anything that moves. We need to start being loud and take back the message the we are the party of the people. 2.        Bringing back these voters isn’t just going to happen at the voting booth, or at the doors between June and November, or from a mail piece in their already overstuffed mailbox. We’re going to have to get in there and give it some elbow grease. We need to organize every corner of this state. I’ll admit, I’ve made mistakes. One is that we’ve done a majority of our work through the prism of our House and Senate caucuses who set the targets. We can’t do that anymore. We need to organize all corners of this state. I’ve started to put together a plan called One Minnesota. The plan calls for regional offices that serve all 67 senate districts. It’s an expensive plan, one that will require a nose to the grindstone approach to raising the funds, but I’m committed to doing the leg work needed so that every part of the state has an office and staff that will help them during an election and during the off year. 3.        There are a lot of rural party units that are exhausted. We have party chairs and vice chairs that have been in those positions for years longer than they would have liked because no one else wants to pick up the torch. There are also lots of leadership positions that are left open year after year. Our Revolution MN has done a great job of pinpointing that as a hole that they can help fill to improve our party. I hope to continue our partnership with organizations like your own to help pinpoint those units and positions where we can recruit someone with new ideas and energy. What we saw during the primary is that there is passion and energy in rural Minnesota, but we need to give those people a place in the party if we really are serious about bringing life into local units in rural Minnesota.

How will you recruit new candidates to run for public office? *
The One Minnesota plan calls for early recruitment of candidates. Regardless of if I’m elected again or not, we need to get our candidates out on the doors early so that meaningful conversations can happen, instead of the transactional conversations that happen during the heat of an election. But we first need to figure out who those candidates are going to be. There are 67 senate districts, 134 house districts and of course we will have incumbents run in a portion of those seats, but nevertheless, candidate recruitment is a big job. I want to do a few things here:\n1.        Recruit from and for nonpartisan offices. Deep organizing means that we can’t forget about our local offices like city council and school board. Matt Little was elected to the Senate this year in part because he developed relationships with his community through his work on the city council and as mayor. That’s the type of organizing that we need to do more of. We need to find these sitting local office holders and recruit them to run for our legislative seats. There are a lot of local units who are really delving into this, but as a party we can be doing more.\n2.        Partnerships with organizations like Our Revolution are important. Organizations have a unique perspective and can help identify community leaders who would make great candidates.\n3.        Previously, the caucuses would promise candidates the moon and not be able to deliver in non-targeted races. With the One Minnesota plan we can offer candidates tangible assistance so that when we are recruiting candidates, they know exactly what kind of assistance they will have. Running for office is a stressful, time consuming, and sometimes scary decision. The Party has a responsibility to the candidates that we recruit.

What is the role of DFL Party officers in endorsing and supporting candidates? *
DFL Party Officers are bound by the constitution to abide by our endorsed candidates in legislative and statewide races. The only race that we are personally allowed to endorse is in presidential races. I know this caused a lot controversy and it seemed like I was putting my finger on the scale for Hillary. I want to assure you that I didn’t. Please don’t take my word for it, talk to members of his team here in Minnesota. Bernie’s victory in Minnesota was because of the hard work that your members, his supporters and his staff did. It was a wonderfully run campaign. I worked closely with his campaign to make sure that the DFL provided what it could to it. We held frequent meetings and had many conversations with the state campaign and national campaign. I advocated for changes on the platform committee so that Rep. Keith Ellison could represent Minnesota and I did my best to make sure the Bernie national delegates had their requests met and voices heard at the National Convention. I want to acknowledge that it was a tense primary, and we still have work to do. I’m committed to bringing in the new voices that supported Bernie, I’m committed to bringing Bernie’s message into the party, and I’m committed to making sure that we work together to ensure that in 2018 we win for the people of Minnesota.

How do you plan to win elections (ie. campaign political philosophy)? *
I was very honored to be a founding board member for Minnesotans United. What that campaign taught everyone was that meaningful, long form conversations can change minds and motivate people in a way that transactional conversations just can’t. Winning elections is always about people. Door knocking is incredibly important. Those conversations are campaign gold, but we need to start really investing in earlier conversations. We need to get candidates out earlier. My goal is to have our candidates in the game by this summer so that they can start having meaningful, long form conversations long before the election. Meaningful conversations aren’t just left to the candidates. Deep organizing means that regardless of candidacy, we all need to take our conversations to our closest circles. Research shows that people are much more likely to believe someone if they are a trusted messenger--a family member, a church member, a friend, a teammate. I know that those conversations can be uncomfortable. My father is a Republican, my father-in-law is a Republican, my union member brother voted for Trump. But, we are going to have to be uncomfortable to fight for what we know is right. There were quite a few people who said we needed to stop talking about identity politics to win back rural Minnesota. I think that’s wrong. There is no reason this is an either or battle. We can fight for marginalized communities and we can fight for rural Minnesota. If we can speak to the knot in people’s stomachs with economic populist message, we can talk to all of Minnesota.

What is your vision for the future of the DFL Party regarding the independent grassroots organizations (ie Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, TakeAction Minnesota)? *
Sometimes the DFL isn’t the right leader for the charge. Everyone expects me to be loud and speak out against what’s happening on a state and national level. It’s politics as usual. Independent grassroots organizations like Our Revolution, BLM, TakeAction, Indivisible, and Stand Up MN have a unique ability to show the world that these issues aren’t just partisan politics. Right now the DFL needs to support and lift up these organizations, not co-op their energy. I look forward to continuing work with these independent organizations and continue to develop relationships with the new ones that have emerged over the last year. Working against each other and duplicating efforts won’t help us win. But cooperation and support will lead us to progressive victories. I am proud of the cooperative work that the DFL and these organizations have done in the past, and look forward to forming new partnerships to advance progressive politics in Minnesota.

What is your plan to raise money to support the DFL Party reforms and future campaigns? *
From 1990-2005 we had the largest small donor program in the country coming in at 30,000 donors. When I inherited the party, our small donor program had been reduced to an alarmingly low 3,000 donors. For those of you who have experience in non-profits, you’ll understand that a strong organization is built on a strong small donor program. Bernie is one of the best examples of this. He had sustainable support through his small donor program -- $27.00! During my six years as DFL Chair, we have rebuilt our small donor program back into one of the strongest in the country, but we can always do better. I plan on focusing on building on our strong small donor program so that our campaigns and party programs are sustainably resourced and that our party is funded by the people.

Candidate Rationale

By asking the questions in this section we seek to find out why you are running for office, your issue priorities and background.

Why are you running for office? *
I am running for re-election to be Chair of the MN DFL. I never set out to be the chair of this party. When Governor Dayton asked me to run for the position, my first reaction was far from enthusiastic. But as you know, we have a pretty fierce and persuasive governor and long story short, here I am. Being front and center isn’t my calling. I was happy to run progressive campaigns from the background because I believed in them. I wanted change and I wanted people’s lives to be better. I still do. There are campaign operatives and consultants who will work on anything. I could never do that. That’s not who I am. I believe in this party. I believe in the values of the DFL. I am a proud Democrat, and even prouder DFLer. I have been in this party for decades and no matter what happens on March 4th, I will always be a proud and active member of this party. I didn’t know if I was going to run again. I felt defeated after the election in November. Devastated, defeated, disenchanted, all the bad “D” words. But then I spoke to my neighbors from India, Vietnam, and Venezuela. Instead of their usual inquisitiveness about what I was up to in the political world, they were outwardly fearful. There kids were scared. My kids are white, they don’t have that same fear. I decided then that I couldn’t give up because people are counting on us. The party is stronger organizationally and financially than it ever has been. We had more offices and feet on the ground this election than we ever have before. The Republicans have had to rely on outside groups like the MN Jobs Coalition to do their bidding, but because of the DFL’s organizational and financial stability and the relationships we have with our partners, we are at the center of electoral strategy and have the ability to support our candidates. We have a very important election coming up. If we don’t win the gubernatorial, we’re sunk. We will be just like Wisconsin. I’m running because we can’t go backwards, we need to keep moving forward. I committed to learning from mistakes, building on successes, and bringing in new people to our party. We can’t afford to be in debt and organizationally scattered. I’m running to move this party forward so that we can better people’s lives.

What are your top three priorities once elected? *
The three top priorities for me are 1) making sure that we continue ensuring that our party is diverse and inclusive 2) that we organize and build our party throughout the state with deep organizing in rural Minnesota and 3) Crafting a narrative for the DFL that speaks to people’s anxiety and helps us win the Governors race.

Why are you the best person to address these issues? *
DFLers aren’t cookie cutter. They have differing issues that they care about. We saw this at the last State Central Committee meeting. But, what makes the DFL a strong party is that we can find common ground. We might not always support the same candidate in the primary, we may not always hold the same positions on a topic, and we may not all agree on a proposed platform amendment, but we have a grassroots party that allows for those disagreements, even welcomes them. I’m the chair of the DFL. I don’t draft policy and I don’t decide what the DFL platform says or does, that’s up to all of you. What I can do is bring us all together to fight for what we all can rally behind. I’m the only person in the race right now who has brought all of our parties branches together to sit at the same table. As DFL Chair, you are responsible to stakeholder groups -- party leaders and activists, elected officials and candidates, and progressive partners, allies and donors. Before I was chair, no one was sitting at the same table. We had massive debt and an organization that didn’t show what we had gotten for our money. I have the relationships and the experience to make sure that when we are making decisions, we have all the pieces and the ability to execute plans. We can talk a good talk, but unless we have the resources and relationships to act, we don’t have anything.

How will you use your candidacy/elected official position to engage more citizens in the political process? *
One of the things I am most proud of is that we’ve opened up the Party. I believe in inclusiveness. People can talk about diversity, but unless those voices are given power and leadership, those are just feel good stats. We have the most diverse staff in DFL history and the most diverse leadership in DFL history. I urged for the addition of 50 at-large state central committee spots, most of which were filled by Bernie supporters, and 50 positions for local government officials. I am proud of the work we’ve done to engage more people in our party, not just so our stats would look better, but so we our party had the voices in it to reflect our values. We need an inclusive party if we are serious about what we believe in. I am looking forward to continuing my efforts to open up the party and building relationships with organizations like Our Revolution MN and Stand Up MN. One of the projects that I am really looking forward to is working with Our Revolution MN in filling leadership vacancies around the state with fresh voices. One Minnesota calls for statewide offices to service every part of the state. One of the paramount pieces of the plan is hiring people to staff those offices locally. Local people have local knowledge and insights that we can’t possible know from St. Paul. By giving support to the local party units, by hiring a local person who has the support of the state party, we will hopefully engage more people to the party in parts of the state that haven’t gotten much attention.

Describe your experiences and skill sets that will help you be effective in office. *
I’ve spent my entire career in progressive politics. I got my start with Paul Wellstone and spent the next 27 years working on progressive campaigns. I have been involved in all levels of campaigns. From being Rep. Sandra Masin’s treasurer to leading Governor Dayton’s re-count efforts, to working on issue campaigns--I was a founding board member of Minnesotans United and ran the largest clean water initiative campaign in the nation. I know what it takes to run an effective campaign. I also know how to help other campaigns be successful. The DFL isn’t a candidate. Candidate’s win their campaigns. But the DFL can add value to a campaign and help push it over the top. I have shown that we can do this. Our elected officials endorsed me because the DFL under my leadership provided support to their campaigns that wasn’t there before. I have proven that we can build relationships between our partners. Our partners used to act around us because we didn’t have the capacity to be at the table. That’s not the case anymore. I set a goal to develop relationships that had been previously frayed and I accomplished that goal. We now have robust relationships with party leaders and activists, elected officials and candidates, progressive partners, allies and donors.. The DFL needs those partners if we want to be successful going forward. The part of politics everyone hates and doesn’t like to talk about--money. Grassroots aren’t free. Money shouldn’t matter more than people and that’s why the DFL invests money into people. This last year we had the most organizers on the ground in the history of the DFL. We had a base program that was devoted to organizing in communities of color, by hiring people from those communities. We developed an entire program, the Red to Blue program, to work with non-targeted candidates. These are vital programs, but they are expensive. We can’t go into debt every time there is an election. There is always an election. I’ve proven that I can raise the money to fund these programs. We’re looking at implementing one of the most ambitious statewide programs in DFL history. It’s expensive. Very expensive. My ability to raise funds for our programs and our electoral strategies is going to be very important going into this existential period in our state and country's history.

Our Revolution Values

By asking these questions we wish to see how your values align with the values of Our Revolution MN. Please describe how each of the values listed below will guide your conduct and decision-making as a representative of the people.

Citizens (people) before Corporations *
Citizens United was a catastrophic ruling by the Supreme Court. The DFL believes that people are people. The Supreme Court's decision undermined the foundations of our democracy. As Lincoln so eloquently put it, our government should be for the people, by the people, and of the people. As the chair of the DFL I committed to fighting for the people. Our government should not be beholden to corporate interests over the interests of the people.

Voters over Donors *
Voters decide elections. They go to the polls. We need to make sure that we continue to put money into people power. Donors have a place in our party. Without them we can't pay for offices, hire staff like field organizers, build robust coordinated campaigns, or assist local party units. As previously mentioned, our small donor program is one of the best in the country, which was no small feat after inheriting a deteriorating program. I am going to continue to build this program and invest the funds in programs and resources that are centered on people and voters. I've been traveling the state recently, and I agree with what a lot of our rural Minnesota DFLers are saying--they need more resources. There's a cost to it. But raising the money doesn't mean we aren't focused on voters. It means that we value our local units enough to invest in their needs. I will continue to raise funds for our party and invest them in voters and our Party. The grassroots aren't free, but if we put our money into grassroots organizing and into the people, then we're putting our money where our mouth is.

People, Planet and Peace before Profits *
The DFL is one of the most grassroots party in the nation. We have one of the largest state central committees with one of the most open processes to getting involved. What I've seen in my time as an activist and the chair is that our people are committed to people, the planet and peace before profits. It's not my place to make policy or take my personal beliefs and paste them onto the DFL. That's the type of top down approach that I think is inappropriate for a chair to assume. I will fight for our party values. I would have never gotten involved in this party if we weren't the party of the people, who believe in science, and who advocate for peace before profits. We may disagree with how all the pieces fit together. The last state central committee was an example of this. But, I am proud to be a part of a party that takes the time to have these disagreements and can come out stronger from them. I will always be guided by our common principles, no matter my position within the party.

Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons *
The DFL is open to everyone. It's a simple statement, and easy to say. It feels good to say. But the question I continually push myself to ask is if we are practicing what we preach. That's why I have made it a continual goal of mine to open this party up like it has never been done before. Not just stats, but actually inclusion. We've done good work so far. I have worked hard to expand our constituency caucuses, and put members of those caucuses on the state executive board. My staff is the most diverse staff that the DFL has ever had. I advocated and fought for there to be 50 additional at-large delegates on the state central committee. We revamped our coordinated campaign into being a base organizing campaign, focusing on organizing people of color that historically don't receive the attention that they deserve during an election season. We hired people from those communities to organize. We have invested money, staff, time, and man power into campaigns like the Vote No campaign on the voter ID amendment because access to the ballot for ALL people is what Minnesota is about. I was a founding board member of Minnesotans United and worked tirelessly so that Minnesota would stand up for our fellow Minnesotans who faced discrimination because of who they loved. I ran the largest clean water initiative in the countries history because clean water is a right and not a privilege. Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons means that we don't back down when we know something is wrong. We don't shy away when the fight is tough, because we know what is right. People of color, immigrants, indigenous people, people with disabilities, are all a part of this party. This is anyone's party and we all have a responsibility to welcome new people in. I know that there are barriers for people and I am committed to continuing to knock those barriers down. It's my responsibility as chair to make sure that this party is the party of the people -- all people.

Closing

Why is an Our Revolution MN endorsement important to you? *
Our Revolution MN’s endorsement is important to me because I value the work that you have been doing and the energy behind it. I want to continue to develop our relationship so that we can work towards achieving our mutual goals as progressives. Our party needs your voices. I don’t want to co-op your energy, I want to cooperate and coordinate. There is power in your organization and the ideals behind it. I’d be honored to have your endorsement.

Which candidate did you support for president in the 2016 Minnesota caucuses 2016 and why? *
I supported Hillary Clinton in the MN caucus. My relationship with Hillary dates back to the 90s and I consider her a friend. I think she would have been a great president. My support for Hillary though doesn’t negate the appreciation I have for Bernie Sanders. I’ve admired his work in the Senate and admire the grassroots campaign he ran and the energy he ignited. I am hopeful that with the swell of support he had from both seasoned DFLers and new DFLers that we can move the party to adopt an economic populist message that speaks to the heart of people all over the state.

Is there anything else you would like the Our Revolution MN Endorsements Committee to know about you?
It’s very important to me that people new to the political process feel like they have a voice in the party. I want you to know that for as long as I’m chair, the door is always open. I am a phone call away and I want you to call.
