DFL Party Officers Our Revolution MN Candidate Questionnaire
The purpose of this questionnaire is to screen candidates who are interested in receiving an endorsement from Our Revolution MN. All responses will be public.

Name *
Marge Hoffa

For which office are you campaigning? *
Vice Chair
DFL Party Officers
The purpose of this section is to get specific responses for the DFL Party Officer races.

Do you support the current Super Delegate system? Why or Why Not? *
No, it should be abolished. I support the efforts of the DNC Unity commission which is made up of former supporters of Sen. Bernie Sanders and former party presidential nominee Hillary Clinton over the question of whether to eliminate or reform the superdelegate system.

Do you believe in presidential primary? *
Yes. It allows more voices to be heard.

How will you bring rural, independent Democrats back into the party? *
By working with activists, party leaders and elected officials to reach out to individuals and groups across the state.

How will you recruit new candidates to run for public office? *
The state DMO (Democratic Elected Officials) has been a good resource. We need to expand those efforts and do more outreach locally.

What is the role of DFL Party officers in endorsing and supporting candidates? *
All party officers should abide by the DFL constitution. Subsection C. Limitations on Activities. The State DFL chair and vice chair and paid employees of the State DFL Party shall refrain from endorsing or promoting the endorsement of candidates prior to their official endorsement by the appropriate party organization. The chair and vice chair of each other party unit shall refrain from endorsing or promoting the endorsement of candidates in their party unit or any lower-level unit prior to the official endorsement by the appropriate party organization. Nothing in this provision shall be interpreted to prohibit recruitment of candidates. The State DFL chair and vice chair and paid employees of the State DFL Party shall support only candidates endorsed by the appropriate party organization.

How do you plan to win elections (ie. campaign political philosophy)? *
By working with local activists, leaders, and constituency caucuses to find, train and elect the best candidates. I believe all of the races are important (i.e. school board, city council, township boards) if we are going to build for the future.

What is your vision for the future of the DFL Party regarding the independent grassroots organizations (ie Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, TakeAction Minnesota)? *
We should be supporting those efforts without trying to overtake their message. The DFL should not be the focal point.

What is your plan to raise money to support the DFL Party reforms and future campaigns? *
Make calls to donors working with our finance chair Have my name used on invitations.Record robo calls to advertise events. Attend as many as possible in all parts of the state.
Candidate Rationale
By asking the questions in this section we seek to find out why you are running for office, your issue priorities and background.

Why are you running for office? *
There is still so much work to do. I want to keep fighting for what is right and just. I have committed many years to listening and engaging with a variety of activists that have made this party strong. I firmly believe that we need a strong listener and coalition builder more than ever. My years of experience as well as my own passion for the DFL and its history of inclusion is why I'm running.

What are your top three priorities once elected? *
Work with Local Party activists,leaders to improve the effectiveness of their organizing unit and recruitment of candidates. Help expand our outreach programs with the Constituency Caucuses. Assisting our new DNC chair with party reforms. (hopefully it is Keith Ellison- I am voting him for next week)

Why are you the best person to address these issues? *
Growing up in the Duluth area and having lived in 5 of the 8 Congressional districts has allowed me to see rural, urban, exurban and suburban life. My experience serving within the DFL will also be an asset. Positions include - Precinct Chair, Senate District Chair, Congressional District Chair and now Vice Chair. It helps to know some of the challenges and struggles those positions entail. I have also been on several committees and task forces trying to make improvements to our party process. My involvement with campaigns ranging from school board, city council, state house to statewide and national races has given me a grassroots prospective to politics. I began my activism as a volunteer for Paul Wellstone. Since then, I have made thousands of calls and knocked as many doors with other activists and candidates-Regardless of my position in the party. I don't believe you should ask a volunteer to do something you won"t (or don't) do yourself- It is important to lead by example.

How will you use your candidacy/elected official position to engage more citizens in the political process? *
Engage people where they are.Show up- do a lot of listening, ask questions. Help them with issues and concerns-advise without telling them it has to be done a certain way. Follow up with a phone call and email. Always have an open door.

Describe your experiences and skill sets that will help you be effective in office. *
One of the things I am most proud of is the work we have done with traditionally underrepresented groups. The Somali Caucus, Stonewall caucus and the Outreach and Inclusion Committee have given me awards to recognize my efforts. Assisting with the expansion of the constituency caucuses to include the Muslim American, the Environment and helping to add 50 at large delegates to the State Central Committee show some of my commitment to outreach and inclusion.
Our Revolution Values
By asking these questions we wish to see how your values align with the values of Our Revolution MN. Please describe how each of the values listed below will guide your conduct and decision-making as a representative of the people.

Citizens (people) before Corporations *
Yes- time to get back to basics. We are the party that represents everybody- Not just the ones with money. Main Street over Wall Street.

Voters over Donors *
We cannot move a progressive agenda if we do not win elections. Time to listen, learn and make changes accordingly or we will not succeed.

People, Planet and Peace before Profits *
I want to leave my children ( and everyone else's) a world that is kind, clean, safe and gives them an equal opportunity to thrive. That will not be accomplished if we pollute it, or destroy it with unnecessary wars.

Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons *
I believe the DFL Constitution is a good start. Section1.- Affirmative Action , Outreach, and inclusion. Officers at every level shall by affirmative steps, including outreach and inclusion, encourage young people, the elderly, women, the handicapped and minority groups whether by race, ethnic groups, or sexual preference, to attend the precinct caucus and to seek election as delegates, members of party committees and officers; inform all persons how to effectively participate in the selection process; and encourage all Democrats to select affirmatively such individuals when voting, so that such groups shall be represented on such delegations in committees, and in party offices in reasonable proportion to their presence in the state.
Closing

Why is an Our Revolution MN endorsement important to you? *
It is important because it represents a movement that allowed for the most progressive party platform. A platform that pushed deep conversations within the party. Our Revolution members are also active within the party. They are energizing this movement of resistance against the Republican majority.We need to make changes together- Different perspectives will make our party better and stronger.

Which candidate did you support for president in the 2016 Minnesota caucuses 2016 and why? *
I supported Hillary Clinton. My choice was based on who had the majority of delegates at the DNC.I would have supported Bernie Sanders if he had the most delegates. I did not feel it was my roll to overturn the will of the majority. Having said that, I am in full agreement that the whole system needs to be changed.
Is there anything else you would like the Our Revolution MN Endorsements Committee to know about you?
I am committed to working with anyone and to going anywhere I am needed. We need to grow and strengthen our party to win elections.
