DFL Party Officers Our Revolution MN Candidate Questionnaire
The purpose of this questionnaire is to screen candidates who are interested in receiving an endorsement from Our Revolution MN. All responses will be public.

Name *
Melissa Olson

For which office are you campaigning? *
DFL Vice Chair
DFL Party Officers
The purpose of this section is to get specific responses for the DFL Party Officer races.

Do you support the current Super Delegate system? Why or Why Not? *
No, I don't support the current system. I elected by my neighbors to represent MN's 5th Congressional District, and I attended the DNC. As a delegate I worked hard to raise money to attend the convention. Bernie Sanders won MN with %61 percent of Minnesotans who caucused voting for him. At the convention that the super delegates from Minnesota voted for Hillary which did not represent the way Minnesotans voted at our caucuses. I believe in one person--one vote. We have the opportunity in Minnesota to reform our party by requiring that super delegates cast their votes for the candidate who won the state. I believe we should and can achieve reform on this issue. At the state convention, I along with a majority of state delegates voted to abolish the super delegate system. While we might not be able to change the national rule on super delegates, we can continue to work for change.

Do you believe in presidential primary? *
I do believe in a presidential primary. I was a delegate to the SD 60A, and our convention lasted the entire day which left out many, many people who could not afford to spend the day caucusing. I was one of several people who motioned the floor at my Senate District convention to move ahead with the Presidential voting so that we could hear from as many people as possible. A presidential primary will invite broader participation, and I welcome it. We will continue to caucus for state and local races and continue on in the tradition of having important caucus discussions at the state and local level.

How will you bring rural, independent Democrats back into the party? *
I am from rural Minnesota. I was born in New Ulm, MN, a small town in the Minnesota River Valley. I understand the importance of relationships in rural Minnesota. I believe we need to continue to stand up and fight for our values as DFLers in rural Minnesota. I moved to Minneapolis as an adolescent and as an adult I have come understand the cultural landscape of both urban and rural communities. We can not allow the media or the GOP to play upon a perceived rural/urban divide in Minnesota. The media has coded 'rural' Minnesota as working class and white, and 'urban' Minnesota as home to People of Color. As a person of color, I know this is a myth. The first thing we need to do is push back against this stereotyping of who we are as a state. People in rural Minnesota are fighting for issues of racial equality and economic equity the same as people who live in Minneapolis and St. Paul. Second, in order to win back those voters who have may have voted for the Republican in this election cycle, we need to get our message out there and that message has to be focused on the economy. We need to adapt and change as engage voters on the issues that matter them. We need to support our party units across the state by following their lead. Party leaders and candidates need support from the State Party, not a DFL that is centralized in St. Paul.

How will you recruit new candidates to run for public office? *
We have a large number of individuals who joined the DFL as a result of Bernie Sanders campaign, and I am among this group of individuals who are working to understand how we can work to reform the DFL. As a Native person of mixed-heritage, I am hoping that by running for a statewide party leadership position that I will have inspired other people of color and indigenous people to run for office. I believe the power of storytelling in getting a progressive message to voters cannot be underestimated, and we have powerful stories to tell. I believe that helping first time candidates tell their stories is key to helping them launch their campaign for public or party office. I have been working on an audio documentary (for public radio) that started out as a conversation between friends and blossomed into a storytelling project. I am writing out the answers to this questionnaire our documentary aired today on MPR to an audience of 900,000 people. Our candidates will not be creating audio documentaries per se but I believe my engagement with storytelling and media is a yyuuuuuge asset to our party as we seek to build a deeper bench over the next two years and get our message out to votes. We need engage new candidates. As we do become more focused in our storytelling, we are going to attract new candidates.

What is the role of DFL Party officers in endorsing and supporting candidates? *
I believe the Vice Chair needs to remain neutral in primaries while votes decide on endorsements, and work diligently to support our endorsed candidates. I have heard from people of color and indigenous people that the endorsing process feels like 'insider' politics. We need to understand that the endorsement process may be keeping potentially great candidates from running. We need to encourage broad participation at our local party units without suggesting to individuals that a candidate needs to prove themselves over and over again without a modicum of real support before the DFL will support them as a candidate. We need to grow as a party to support people as they enter into the party.

How do you plan to win elections (ie. campaign political philosophy)? *
We need to focus our message as a party on progressive issues. I support the platform endorsed by Our Revolutions national organization, and have worked with the Our Revolution MN to work toward building our platform. We need to engage voters through storytelling and personal connection (traditional campaign techniques), we need to support candidates in places across the state where they have been ignored in the last election cycle. As vice chair I want to work on a micro-donating program starting at the $5/week level to encourage participation and build momentum. We need to listen to candidates tell us what works. Many of the candidates have said the party relies too heavily on polling data to decide where to spend money and what issues to emphasize. We need to engage and listen to voters and support candidates.

What is your vision for the future of the DFL Party regarding the independent grassroots organizations (ie Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, TakeAction Minnesota)? *
We need to work with partners from BLM, Our Revolution MN, and Take Action MN, WANDA and others. We need a statewide strategy for working with our partners. The party needs to take responsibility for organizing statewide to win elections. We should encourage individuals to be involved in both the party and with organizations, but the party needs to stand up for our values and lead. I believe that individuals who serve in both capacities can help craft an activist strategy that will be effective in winning votes.

What is your plan to raise money to support the DFL Party reforms and future campaigns? *
As Vice Chair, I want to lead a micro-donating fundraising program to raise significant sums of money for the DFL. We still need to fight to get big money out of politics through campaign finance reform. We as a party can work to make small or micro donating an important feature of the party that works to invite participation on campaigns and build momentum. Communities of color that I have spoken with over the past month are excited about this program as it has traditionally been the way communities of color have raised support for candidates.
Candidate Rationale
By asking the questions in this section we seek to find out why you are running for office, your issue priorities and background.

Why are you running for office? *
Senator Sanders inspired me when he said, 'Now is time to get deeply involved in our political process.' As a person is from rural Minnesota and who has lived in Minneapolis and St. Paul, I believe my ability as a person who can connect to people all over the state. I want to use that ability to better organize the DFL.

What are your top three priorities once elected? *
1) Starting a micro-donating project to raise money 2) Working with leadership to improve communication across party units using available technology, and 3) when elected working to hold DFL leadership accountable to the state party units.

Why are you the best person to address these issues? *
I believe I have the life experiences to be the voice for people across the state. I am a passionate advocate for children in my professional life, which has taught me how to 'keep my eye on the prize' when advocating for people.

How will you use your candidacy/elected official position to engage more citizens in the political process? *
I would like to see the party change to reflect the people who vote and will vote on progressive issues. I will fight for a fundraising program that doesn't guilt and shame our current supporters into donating to the party, and work to empower individuals to work with one another.

Describe your experiences and skill sets that will help you be effective in office. *
I currently travel the state in my professional life as a Guardian ad Litem in the 4th Judicial District. I work to advocate for the most vulnerable children in our state. I understand intimately the way public policy affects their lives. I have always treated my role as honored servant rather than privileged leader. I bring that passion and advocacy with me into party activism.
Our Revolution Values
By asking these questions we wish to see how your values align with the values of Our Revolution MN. Please describe how each of the values listed below will guide your conduct and decision-making as a representative of the people.

Citizens (people) before Corporations *
I believe in overturning Citizens United, and working to get Big Money out of politics.

Voters over Donors *
Currently DFL voters across the state feel as though they are shamed into donating, and when the do donate, the party does doesn't support candidates in all areas across the state. As a result of those decisions voters don't see DFL candidates standing up for their values. Again, we need to support candidates in all areas of the state, fight for votes, and when in office fight for voters. The party can do that by taking on the role of fighting the GOP when they go low.

People, Planet and Peace before Profits *
I am proud to say I am from New Ulm and I am proud to say I am member of the Leech Lake band of Ojibwe. As a Native person of mixed heritage there is nothing more important to me than the health of our lakes and rivers in Minnesota. I traveled to Standing Rock this past fall to stand with Dakota and Lakota people in their fight for clean water. As a candidate for Vice Chair, I understand that many people are just as passionate about this issue and others. We party is diverse, and we need to have health, productive conversations within our party that reflect the values of our constituents. As vice chair, I believe I can help facilitate those dialogues.

Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons *
As mixed Native person who is now a candidate I continue to take my own inventory on issues of privilege and power. As a candidate for Vice Chair, I want to work with everyone to make sure we are working to communicate our values democrats and progressives. First we need to work toward making our meetings welcome and accessible for all people, including people of different abilities, people who speak different languages, and people who identify as gender non-binary so that we all feel the support we need within our party units. We need to keep fighting for change. There are so many ideas that need to be put in practice, I want to work with our party unit leaders and our chair to help lead efforts toward real inclusion in our party.
Closing

Why is an Our Revolution MN endorsement important to you? *
I supported Senator Sanders in his bid for the democratic nomination. I want to continue the work of his vision.

Which candidate did you support for president in the 2016 Minnesota caucuses 2016 and why? *
Bernie Sanders. I supported him for many reasons, among these were is commitment to working class people and his commitment to really visiting and listening to Native people across the country. Out of the 65 Native people who attended the DNC as delegates, 57 of them voted for Bernie. I am so proud to be among that number.
Is there anything else you would like the Our Revolution MN Endorsements Committee to know about you?
I thank you for all your hard work. As you know there is a gender balance requirement for the Chair and Vice chair. I am running for Vice Chair independent of a candidate for chair. I take no position on the Chair race, and believe every endorsing body and every SCC delegate should first vote their values in that election. I full accept the outcome of any endorsement, and the election for Chair. Thank you!

