Public Document: DFL Party Officer Questions: 

1: Do you support the current Super Delegate system? Why or Why Not? No. The current system has significant disadvantages for people who are new to the caucus and convention process. It needs to change to make the process more open and inclusive, particularly for new participants.

2: Do you believe in the Presidential (direct) primary system? No.

3: How will you bring rural, independent democrats back into the party? As Outreach Officer, I have already begun doing this post-election, by talking with and listening to local leaders and activists about what we need to do differently to bring those democrats back. I am working with party units to take actions that are responsive to their unit’s feedback, ideas, and needs. As Outreach Officer, I am working with local leaders and activists to strengthen the infrastructure of our rural party units and those units’ outreach and inclusion programs, as well as address the challenges those units face in doing outreach and inclusion work.

4: How will you recruit new candidates to run for public office? As Outreach Officer, I would help to recruit new leaders by developing leadership pipelines in organizing units (as described in our 2017 statewide outreach goals) to foster recruitment of candidates as well as mentoring, grooming and retention of those potential candidates in the party. Collaboration with ally organizations will be important in recruiting fresh, vibrant leaders to run for office as well.

5: What is the role of DFL Party officers in endorsing and supporting candidates? According to the DFL Constitution and Bylaws: \"The State DFL chair and vice chair and paid employees of the State DFL Party shall refrain from endorsing or promoting the endorsement of candidates prior to their official endorsement by the appropriate party organization. The chair and vice chair of each other party unit shall refrain from endorsing or promoting the endorsement of candidates in their party unit or any lower-level unit prior to the official endorsement by the appropriate party organization. Nothing in this provision shall be interpreted to prohibit recruitment of candidates. The State DFL chair and vice chair and paid employees of the State DFL Party shall support only candidates endorsed by the appropriate party organization.\"

6: How do you plan to win elections (campaign political philosophy? As Outreach Officer, I plan to help the DFL to win elections by working with local leaders and activists to build strong party units across our state; empower local party leaders and activists (who are the people that know their constituents best) with the tools and resources to reach voters, build their bases, and recruit and mentor strong candidates; and work with local party leaders to develop leadership pipelines in their districts.

7: What is your vision for the future of the DFL Party regarding the independent grassroots organizations (ie Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, TakeAction Minnesota)? I maintain (as I have publicly stated throughout last year) that our future as a party is dependent upon our ability to build relationships and trust with our grassroots allies (including Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, and Take Action Minnesota.) Community building with our allies cannot be solely inward facing (motivated by achieving our needs as a party), it MUST also be outward facing (motivated by the need to help our allies so that as a progressive community we are successful in making change), if we are to grow as a party and truly be a voice for our community. We must be actively involved in, and supportive of, the efforts of our allies – and not only ask our allies to be supportive of the party. Collaboration and community building must be a two-way street, and our party units, at every level, need to engage in that process in order for us to be successful.

8: What is your plan to raise money to support the DFL Party reforms and future campaigns? I will support party fundraising endeavors, and will support organizing unit efforts to raise funds as well. In addition, I will continue to promote and facilitate the utilization of party funding for outreach and inclusion efforts in organizing units across the state through the Outreach Grant Program. This program, under my leadership, distributed more funds to organizing units last year than it had in any of the previous six election cycles. I hope to be able to continue to grow the program as a resource for grassroots efforts by organizing units.

Standard Questions:

Why is an Our Revolution MN endorsement important to you? Our Revolution MN is an incredible movement for progressive change within our state, as well as a voice for constituents across our state. I respect the work of your organization and its activists, and value your endorsement.

What office are you running for and why? I am running for re-election as State Outreach Officer because I feel that we are at a critical juncture in the work that I began during my first term with our statewide outreach team, and I feel that I am the best person to lead our team through its current time of growth and change. For the first time, we are implementing written outreach plans in every congressional district in our state; holding our party units accountable to working collaboratively with organizing units, community caucuses, and progressive grassroots organizations; and creating a process for the development of a leadership pipeline in our districts, so that activists who want to be involved in the party are mentored, supported, and given the tools they need to become new leaders within our party. All of these are huge undertakings for our party units, necessitating a culture shift in the way we do outreach and inclusivity work. I believe I have the skills, relationships, passion and drive to help our party units achieve success in these endeavors, build their units to win in 2017, and hit the ground running in 2018.

What local issue is most important to your constituents and why are you the best person to address it? One of the most important issues to me is the fight for human rights. Whether that involves fighting for womens’ rights, the rights of our Muslim brothers and sisters, Black lives, immigrant rights, LGBTQ rights, or others, these are fights that are deeply personal for me. I know what it feels like to be discriminated against and be downtrodden for not being a part of \"the majority.\" I believe I have the skills and experience to lead our party as Outreach Officer to address these issues.

Describe the experience and skill-set that will help you be effective in office I have worked in the fields of constituent advocacy, outreach, and organizing for most of my professional life. As Outreach Officer for the last term, I believe I have developed an understanding of the strengths and challenges our organizing units face as we enter this time of growth and change in how we do outreach, and I believe that understanding, paired with my professional experience, are critical for me be effective in this role.

How will you use your candidate/elected official position to engage more citizens into the political process? I believe that collaboration with ally organizations is a central part of engaging more citizens into the political process. Please see my answers to questions 4, 6, and 7.

Citizens before Corporations I’m not certain what the question is for this header. I presume it is, \"Do you support citizens before corporations?\" If so, my answer is yes.

Voters over Donors I’m not certain what the question is for this header. I presume it is, \"Do you support voters over donors?\" If so, my answer is yes.

People, Planet, and Peace before Profits I’m not certain what the question is for this header. I presume it is, \"Do you support people, planet and peace before profits?\" If so, my answer is yes.

Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons I’m not certain what the question is for this header. I presume it is, \"Do you support dignity, equity and justice for all persons?\" If so, my answer is yes.

Did you publicly support Bernie Sanders for the 2016 MN Caucus? If no, why not? I was an open (with anyone who asked me) that I personally was caucusing for Hillary Clinton. However, as State Outreach Officer at the time, I actively encouraged both Bernie and Hillary supporters to go to caucuses, attend caucus trainings, attend national delegate trainings, and run to be national delegates for their candidate of choice (regardless of whether that candidate was Bernie or Hillary.) It was important to me that all people who wanted to participate in the process were encouraged, supported, and given access to the tools (information and training) to be able to navigate the political system and have their voices heard.

Is there anything else you would like the Our Revolution Endorsements 
Committee to know about you? I am incredibly proud of the work Our Revolution MN is doing. Please keep doing it! And please continue to let me know how I can help. I appreciate your consideration of my candidacy, and would very much value your endorsement.
