DFL Party Officers Our Revolution MN Candidate Questionnaire
The purpose of this questionnaire is to screen candidates who are interested in receiving an endorsement from Our Revolution MN. All responses will be public.

Name *
Taylor (Tay) Stevenson

For which office are you campaigning? *
DFL Vice Chair
DFL Party Officers
The purpose of this section is to get specific responses for the DFL Party Officer races.

Do you support the current Super Delegate system? Why or Why Not? *
No - it is anti-democratic and anti-activist.

Do you believe in presidential primary? *
I support the current caucus system.

How will you bring rural, independent Democrats back into the party? *
I am a rural, independent Democrat.

How will you recruit new candidates to run for public office? *
By building grassroots-oriented canvassing teams to work in the congressional districts, captained by community organizers who are tasked with geo-mapping communities to find progressive opinion leaders and empower them to run for office.

What is the role of DFL Party officers in endorsing and supporting candidates? *
DFL Party officers ought properly to remain publicly AND privately neutral until the Party has endorsed a candidate. The DFL Party officers exist to ensure a fair and neutral process while empowering all who wish to express a voice within the Party process.

How do you plan to win elections (ie. campaign political philosophy)? *
Very simply, people power over powerful people. We need to embrace long-form, values-based canvassing tactics with broad targeting and off-year basebuilding and party building activities.

What is your vision for the future of the DFL Party regarding the independent grassroots organizations (ie Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, TakeAction Minnesota)? *
As a facilitator, catalyst, and enabler.

What is your plan to raise money to support the DFL Party reforms and future campaigns? *
Maintain large donor relationships while investing far more in small-dollar, activist funding.
Candidate Rationale
By asking the questions in this section we seek to find out why you are running for office, your issue priorities and background.

Why are you running for office? *
I was asked by Donna Cassutt to join her as her running mate. I agreed because I share Donna's passion for citizen activism and believe the Party needs to get back to embracing the strength in the grassroots.

What are your top three priorities once elected? *
1) Creating a strong, off-year canvassing and outreach program 2) Investing in our rural congressional districts to build local parties 3) Utilize a revitalized grassroots network to indentify, embolden, and support candidates for 2018.

Why are you the best person to address these issues? *
As a two-time candidate for the Minnesota State Senate in the Brainerd area and former DFL Party Candidate of the Year (2010), I know exactly how hard it is for our party units in the Outstate and what our candidates face.

How will you use your candidacy/elected official position to engage more citizens in the political process? *
The same way my campaigns did - by actively reaching out to people outside of the Party, inviting them as equals to the campaign table, and empowering them to speak with their own strong and clear voice.

Describe your experiences and skill sets that will help you be effective in office. *
I have over ten years of experience in grassroots political and community organizing and five years of experience in nonprofit leadership.
Our Revolution Values
By asking these questions we wish to see how your values align with the values of Our Revolution MN. Please describe how each of the values listed below will guide your conduct and decision-making as a representative of the people.

Citizens (people) before Corporations *
We only move forward if we embrace love over hate... and only one of those things has a heart.

Voters over Donors *
The tail does not wag the dog... Our Party leaders have too long hid behind money, polls, and powerful people to only wage 'winnable' fights instead of standing on principle and getting into the fights that cannot be lost.


People, Planet and Peace before Profits *
Businesses need to be profitable to operate in the market, but those profits need to take into account the communal costs that are associated with their operations. For example, the price of burning coal should also include the societal costs borne by CO2 and particulates going into the air (respiratory disease, childhood asthma, global warming).

Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons *
We cannot great each other as brothers and sisters in community if we turn a blind eye to injustices lived out daily by some of us. All must be welcome at the table.
Closing

Why is an Our Revolution MN endorsement important to you? *
Because we need the voices from the outside to change the minds of the people on the inside.

Which candidate did you support for president in the 2016 Minnesota caucuses 2016 and why? *
I was neutral during the caucuses - I was out of town during the precinct caucuses and as Director of Campaigns for FairVote MInnesota, I felt it was inappropriate to declare a preference. I personally wanted to see Bernie Sanders win the nomination as I felt his values aligned closer to mine and I thought he stood the greater chance of winning in the General Election. I supported Hillary in the General Election after her nomination because I felt she did an excellent job as Secretary of State under Obama.
Is there anything else you would like the Our Revolution MN Endorsements Committee to know about you?
I am supporting (and telling delegates as much) Melissa Olson for Vice Chair, should Donna lose to Ken for Chair. However, I am concerned that Melissa will not be able to implement the vision of Our Rev with Ken as Chair - we need wholesale leadership change.

