DFL Party Officers Our Revolution MN Candidate Questionnaire
The purpose of this questionnaire is to screen candidates who are interested in receiving an endorsement from Our Revolution MN. All responses will be public.

Name *
Tyler Moroles

For which office are you campaigning? *
DFL State Treasurer
DFL Party Officers
The purpose of this section is to get specific responses for the DFL Party Officer races.

Do you support the current Super Delegate system? Why or Why Not? *
I do not support the current Super Delegate system. Currently the Super Delegate system has 15% of the vote which can make the difference in tight races, when the deciding factor of tight races should be who gets more votes from the regular people. The fact is that it sends a bad message to the voters. Basically it says that Democratic voters are not welcome unless they vote the way the establishment wants them to vote. The system does not speak to our values.

Do you believe in presidential primary? *
Yes I do we need to narrow down to one Democratic presidential candidate. Caucusing is confusing and by in large excludes many voters who may not understand how it works and don't have time to learn.

How will you bring rural, independent Democrats back into the party? *
During my campaign I have made sure to call all of Greater Minnesota SCC delegates first to understand what went wrong and to listen. I am the only candidate in my race to attend Congressional District meetings in Greater Minnesota. I listened to DFL Leaders in Morris (CD 7), Grand Rapids (CD 8) and had someone from my team drive to Mankato (CD 1) to speak on my behalf since it was the same day as CD 8's meeting. I showed up and that is half the battle with folks in Greater Minnesota. Showing up is what I plan to do as DFL State Treasurer. I plan on hosting Town Halls across the state and especially in Greater Minnesota to understand and listen to their concerns. Additionally as Treasurer I plan on supporting the Greater Minnesota DFL Party Unit Treasurers. I had a conversation with one party unit chair who was also Treasurer because no one wanted to do it after one mistakenly broke campaign finance law and received a huge fine. There needs to be people in Party leadership that are willing to show up in these communities and I have and I will. Finally we lost a lot of union/ labor voters this last election because they did not feel like we were the party for them. I am the only candidate out of all Party office races that is a union member. I also am on the Executive Board of AFSCME Council 5. I will say we need to connect with our union brothers and sisters much more than we have this past election to win back Greater Minnesota. There is no winning formula for Greater Minnesota without Unions.

How will you recruit new candidates to run for public office? *
I want to make this party more easily accessible. I had no idea how to join the SCC except someone told me who was already on the SCC. This means it is way too insider. Most people do not even know what the SCC even is! That is one example of why this Party needs to become more accessible and with more access comes more talent for people to run for public office. I also plan on making sure that candidates who are interested in running for public office are well informed on campaign finance rules especially their treasurer.

What is the role of DFL Party officers in endorsing and supporting candidates? *
I think everyone even in DFL Party leadership has a right to have their opinion and preferences in races. However they must not abuse their power to tip the scale for the candidate of their choice. It is a fine line to draw between preferring a candidate and supporting a candidate. As Party officers we must be objective and plan to help whichever candidate that gets the endorsement.

How do you plan to win elections (ie. campaign political philosophy)? *
I think the strategy has many essential factors to it. The first is picking a candidate that can win, someone who has the community ties and the grit to win. Secondly getting a team together of the right people who can make sure all the moving parts of a campaign are taken care of is essential. Third the party must provide robust data for the candidate to use for door knocking and phone banking. Also the Party should provide a thorough analysis of the district to the candidate by outlining the assets and challenges in winning the district. Fourth, campaigns need to be funded so we need to at least provide a baseline fund for every race with a DFL endorsed candidate, and give more money to swing districts. Also In-Kind contributions such as lawn signs, mailings and fliers are essential. Finally we need to get other organizations on board to connect the candidate with the community, for instance if there are a lot of Somali speakers in the district, we need to have some Somali organizations brought on board to help. To accomplish this we need to ensure these community organizations that we have their best interest at heart.

What is your vision for the future of the DFL Party regarding the independent grassroots organizations (ie Black Lives Matter, Our Revolution, TakeAction Minnesota)? *
We need to build trust with many of these organizations because a lot of them do not believe that the DFL represents them. The first step is to build trust and let them know we have their back and their best interest politically. However beyond that I think we need to bring people who are in those organizations into DFL Leadership as well. Organizations like BLM, TakeAction and OurRev all have different goals that the Party needs to speak to. We cannot afford to be watered down in our beliefs as a Party anymore. Too much is at stake to ignore these grassroots organizations and go at it alone.

What is your plan to raise money to support the DFL Party reforms and future campaigns? *
We need to harness the energy from the anger and disdain that the people have of the current disastrous presidential administration. Many people want to take action now and we need to make it easy for them to do that through donations. The big donors will not raise money to reform the DFL so that means we need to get many small or micro donations to help. Also community organizations and unions can play a huge role in this.
Candidate Rationale
By asking the questions in this section we seek to find out why you are running for office, your issue priorities and background.

Why are you running for office? *
The Progressive comeback is coming and I want to do all that I can to make sure we win in 2018. There is a man as our president who thinks people like my family are rapists and drug dealers which has never solidified so much resolve to fight back in my life. I also want to make sure our Party speaks to the new generation of people and that we develop new leaders for the future. Our Party needs to prepare for the fast changes and huge shifts that are coming all over from globalism to climate change. I am running specifically for DFL State Treasurer because I oversee financial reports and explain finances to non-financial people often and I believe I can serve as the Party liaison to treasurers across the state.

What are your top three priorities once elected? *
My top priority will be to serve as a liaison and resource to Party treasurers across the state including campaigns. That will be my main role and the most critical part of the office of Treasurer. With this also I want to present our financial data and educate campaigns and treasurers on where we are standing politically. My second priority is to speak up for voices usually unheard or not at the table in Party leadership. I will be the first Latino to have the role of DFL Party State Treasurer. Now more than ever it is important that the communities that will be under attack must be spoken for and advocated for. My third priority is to show up and reach out. I plan to host Town Halls across the state listening in on why people feel the way they do about the election and our Party. I also want to reach out to communities that do no trust our Party and make sure they are brought in so that they can feel included.

Why are you the best person to address these issues? *
I am the best person for DFL State Treasurer because I have the quantitative background to understand financial reports and to communicate our Party's finances to people who are not financially savvy. I also am a very outgoing and energetic person who is willing to put in the hard work and long hours to meet people, connect people and build our party. I have the unrelenting work ethic to make sure our Party succeeds.

How will you use your candidacy/elected official position to engage more citizens in the political process? *
I plan to reach out to communities that are usually underrepresented in Party leadership. There is no reason that we show up to certain communities in October when the election is in November. We need to be there all of the time and build community ties that are deep and not seasonal, especially now more than ever is this necessary. I speak Spanish and will use this to connect to communities and I believe we need to make the party more language accessible for all. Showing up will be half the battle, connecting will be the other half.

Describe your experiences and skill sets that will help you be effective in office. *
I am currently the Housing Choice Voucher Program Analyst i.e. the analyst for the Section 8 Program of Minneapolis. We are the largest public housing authority in the state and I personally forecast, monitor, and oversee a $41 million budget that serves 5,500 low income families and around 17,000 people. I must be data driven, detail oriented, and have a clear understanding of our financial reports. If I make a mistake and over forecast our budget then we overspend and dip into much needed financial reserves. On the other hand, if I under forecast our budget then I leave millions of dollars on the table that could have housed families and HUD takes the money back. I have a critical, high pressure job and I still have the energy to do all that I do outside of work like union organizing, revitalizing the Latino caucus, etc. I have worked very hard to learn advanced statistics in my graduate program at Columbia University in New York City where I earned a Master's Degree in Political Science with a focus on International Economics. Besides my quantitative background, I also have the personality to be a leader of the Party. I am outgoing and high energy with a clean understanding of Minnesota and the political climate. I can adjust to many venues and groups of people. I will go above and beyond the requirements of the DFL State Treasurer's office.
Our Revolution Values
By asking these questions we wish to see how your values align with the values of Our Revolution MN. Please describe how each of the values listed below will guide your conduct and decision-making as a representative of the people.

Citizens (people) before Corporations *
I definitely believe in "people over corporations" regardless of citizenship status. Corporations are job creators but I'm not going to be okay with compromising our principles as a party so that those jobs exist. Corporations need to be held accountable that is why I will be scrupulous in ensuring they do not break campaign finance law and donate to candidates.

Voters over Donors *
Number one I am not running a campaign to raise money, however as DFL State Treasurer I will have a unique role in overseeing the financial statements of the party. With that being said, I will ensure that all of our financials are abiding by campaign finance law. However, to go beyond that I will advocate that our financial position should not compromise our beliefs. That means encouraging smaller donations from many people as opposed to huge donations from a few that expect something in return.

People, Planet and Peace before Profits *
I have never worked in the private industry since I know most of the time it is profits and board rooms over people and employees. Our planet is in danger and we need to allocate party resources to environmentally active candidates to combat climate change.

Dignity, Equity and Justice for All Persons *
I truly have a conviction to this as I work every day working to more efficiently provide affordable housing to low income families. Additionally as a Chicano I know what it is like to be on the receiving end of racist remarks and sentiments and racial equity will be an essential issue to address in our generation. The US is getting browner and if we leave communities of color behind the US as a whole will decline.
Closing

Why is an Our Revolution MN endorsement important to you? *
I see Our Revolution as a movement that advances the ideals of economic justice and inclusion. Also it is an organization that is championing the issues important to my age group that I relate to. Our Revolution is gaining steam, notoriety and respect among Party leaders. I want to work to change the Party in ways I see Our Revolution also wants to see changed. I am friends with many people in Our Revolution and I am inspired by their energy and passion. Our Revolution is growing and I want to be a part of that.

Which candidate did you support for president in the 2016 Minnesota caucuses 2016 and why? *
To be honest I was working on the Ruben Vazquez campaign that day and I didn't want to take a side. My community was what mattered first since we were under attack on day one of Trump's announcement, so I wanted to do all I can to get Latinos in office. So I was going to vote blue regardless whoever won. I did not like the corporatism of Hillary supporters nor later did I like the "Bernie or Bust" crowd that didn't see stopping Trump at all costs as a priority. I believe inequality is the greatest injustice of our time, and Bernie is speaking truth to those issues. However I also believe globalization is here to stay, I am a globalist and believe we as a world are getting more interconnected as technology improves. In the end I don't at all want to be defined by any one presidential candidate. However, I am reading "Our Revolution" and "The Speech" still.

Is there anything else you would like the Our Revolution MN Endorsements Committee to know about you?
I have attended a few meetings and love the energy and the ideals. I think that Our Revolution is a movement of our time as millennials and I want to be a part of that movement from the inside of the DFL. If I am privileged to earn your endorsement I will always have a line of communication open to Our Revolution. I hope Our Revolution can get more involved in the SCC and even the UDF to make sure we are the future of the DFL. Together we can get a lot done and move this state even more progressive than before. We have a lot of work ahead of us! I would love to stop by and talk with people more or have a phone conversation as well. I apologize for being unavailable last time as I was moving into my new condo I bought. I truly believe we are going to make a progressive comeback! La lucha sigue juntos!
